doc: Defines migration guide for 1.23.0 release (#2898)
mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas: docs/guides/1.23.0-upgrade-guide.md

---
page_title: "Upgrade Guide 1.23.0"
---

# MongoDB Atlas Provider 1.23.0: Upgrade and Information Guide

The Terraform MongoDB Atlas Provider version 1.23.0 has a number of new and exciting features.

## New Resources, Data Sources, and Features

- You can now leverage auto-scaling to scale the instance size of each individual shard independently for sharded and geo-sharded clusters defined with `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster`. To learn more, see the [Advanced Cluster New Sharding Configurations - Use Auto-Scaling Per Shard](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/mongodb/mongodbatlas/latest/docs/guides/advanced-cluster-new-sharding-schema#use-auto-scaling-per-shard).

> - You can now pin a cluster's FCV before upgrading in Atlas, which enables you to revert MongoDB to the previous version after upgrading without experiencing version compatibility issues. This is supported in `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` and `mongodbatlas_cluster` using `pinned_fcv`. To learn more, please review either [mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/mongodb/mongodbatlas/latest/docs/resources/advanced_cluster) or [mongodbatlas_cluster](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/mongodb/mongodbatlas/latest/docs/resources/cluster) resource documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can now pin a cluster's FCV before upgrading in Atlas, which enables you to revert MongoDB to the previous version after upgrading without experiencing version compatibility issues. This is supported in `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` and `mongodbatlas_cluster` using `pinned_fcv`. To learn more, see either [mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/mongodb/mongodbatlas/latest/docs/resources/advanced_cluster) or [mongodbatlas_cluster](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/mongodb/mongodbatlas/latest/docs/resources/cluster) resource documentation.
```

> - You can now configure the default time limit in milliseconds for individual read operations to complete in `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` using `advanced_configuration.0.default_max_time_ms`. To learn more, please review [mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/mongodb/mongodbatlas/latest/docs/resources/advanced_cluster) resource documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can now configure the default time limit in milliseconds for individual read operations to complete in `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` using `advanced_configuration.0.default_max_time_ms`. To learn more, see [mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/mongodb/mongodbatlas/latest/docs/resources/advanced_cluster) resource documentation.
```

---
page_title: "Upgrade Guide 1.23.0"
---

# MongoDB Atlas Provider 1.23.0: Upgrade and Information Guide

The Terraform MongoDB Atlas Provider version 1.23.0 has a number of new and exciting features.

## New Resources, Data Sources, and Features

> - You can now leverage auto-scaling to scale the instance size of each individual shard independently for sharded and geo-sharded clusters defined with `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster`. To learn more, see the [Advanced Cluster New Sharding Configurations - Use Auto-Scaling Per Shard](advanced-cluster-new-sharding-schema#use-auto-scaling-per-shard).

Reviewer 2: nit: should we better use an absolute url so it always goes to the latest version (once 1.23.0 is not the latest version) as in the links below?

- You can now pin a cluster's FCV before upgrading in Atlas, which enables you to revert MongoDB to the previous version after upgrading without experiencing version compatibility issues. This is supported in `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` and `mongodbatlas_cluster` using `pinned_fcv`. To learn more, please review either [mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/mongodb/mongodbatlas/latest/docs/resources/advanced_cluster) or [mongodbatlas_cluster](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/mongodb/mongodbatlas/latest/docs/resources/cluster) resource documentation.

- You can now configure the default time limit in milliseconds for individual read operations to complete in `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` using `advanced_configuration.0.default_max_time_ms`. To learn more, please review [mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/mongodb/mongodbatlas/latest/docs/resources/advanced_cluster) resource documentation.

> 

Reviewer 2: I would keep the "Terraform MongoDB Atlas modules" section as in previous guides

Author: no strong opinion on including in all guides moving forward, was their any conversation around this for previous guides?

Reviewer 2: it was commented in the previous guides PR. maybe you can confirm with Zuhair

Author: synced with @Zuhairahmed, we can include this section when there are updates for Modules
